---
layout: post
title:  "Mela"
summary: "A real-time multiplayer battle game"
author: sanathkukkillaya
date: '2022-11-01 00:00:00 +0530'
category: ['professional_projects']
tags: jekyll
thumbnail: /assets/img/posts/mela-thumbnail.jpg
keywords: professional, project, professional projects, mela, real-time multiplayer, multiplayer, online arena, kings, towers, combat, spells, abilities, pathfinding, dedicater server, smartfox, unity netcode for gameobjects, netcode, modular, status effect
usemathjax: false
permalink: /portfolio/mela/
---
This is an under development real-time multiplayer game similar to Supercell's hit game Clash Royale. It uses the latest Unity Netcode for gameobjects along with Smartfox server to handle multiplayer gameplay.

The game involves a realtime battle between two players to destroy the opponents' king tower. Players are connected via matchmaking based on their current xp and king level. Winning games increases the xp and king level, and rewards the players with treasure chests which can be used to unlock and upgrade various in game characters. Players can also unlock multiple tower abilities which can be equipped during the game to further boost the players outer towers in game. Earning more xp results in unlocking more gameplay arenas as well.

#### My contributions:
- Designed and developed a dedicated server gameplay system using Unity Netcode for gameobjects.
- Migrated the system from peer to peer multiplayer using Smartfox to dedicated server based multiplayer system.
- Developed a modular base character controller system which can be easily extended for different character classes.
- Developed a status effect system to apply various status effects such as stuns, slows etc. on the characters.
- Created a character system using scriptable objects which could be used to easily add new characters and specify their basic behaviour type and update the character stats.
- Planned and distributed tasks amongst various developers.

**Note:** This game is not yet released. There are still some tasks that are planned and under development. I had to move out of the project owing to a change in job, but most of the core gameplay has been developed.