---
layout: post
title:  "Ryans Lab"
summary: "An educational game for kids"
author: sanathkukkillaya
date: '2022-12-15 1:35:23 +0530'
category: ['professional_projects']
tags: jekyll
thumbnail: /assets/img/posts/ryans-lab-thumbnail.jpg
keywords: professional, project, professional projects, ryans lab, ryan kaji, education, kids, quiz, learning path, experiments, drag and drop, memory match, jigsaw puzzle, doodle, customization, characters, subscription, IAP
usemathjax: false
permalink: /portfolio/ryans-lab/
---
<div id="iframe-wrapper"><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/G3EFItwv5EQ?rel=0&amp;controls=0&amp;showinfo=0" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>
<hr />

In my first professional game project, I worked as the primary developer in this educational game for young kids, which was developed for the world's richest Youtuber at the time, Ryan Kaji. This was developed at Juego Studios for the client p.w.games

This game involves a learning path section, where a player has to watch a video by Ryan, and answer quiz questions based on the video to earn rewards. These rewards can then be used in a gameplay section. The gameplay section itself could be one of three different types - a drag and drop experiment game or a memory match game or a jigsaw puzzle game.
There were also other features involved such as a mini doodle game, an avatar customization module and a daily pet creature which could be grown by interacting with it on a regular basis.

#### My contributions:
- Developed most of the core gameplay systems. Was responsible for developing the project from scratch and delivering the final AppStore and Play Store builds to the client.
- Developed the core drag and drop gameplay system module which had to be extensible to work with different types of experiments.
- Developed a simple doodle system using line renderers. Implemented undo and redo system using command pattern. Also implemented the ability to save screenshots natively on Android and iOS.
- Developed a login system from scratch using Rest APIs from backend.
- Developed a 2d character customization system which involved changing the character types and mixing of various costume and accessory sprites.
- Developed the core learning path system. This included the ability to the data from the backend server. It also involved downloading textures from the backend and streaming videos. It also had the quiz system with multiple choice questions.
- Integrated and implemented most of the UI.
- Implemented subscription based In-App Purchases.

[**Play Store Link**][playstore-link]  
**Note:** The app appears to no longer be available on the stores. However the apk can still be downloaded [here][alt-link].

[playstore-link]: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.pwgames.ryanssciencelab
[alt-link]: https://apkaio.com/app/com.pwgames.ryanssciencelab