---
layout: post
title:  "Ultimate Cafe Franchise"
summary: "Cafe building game with different casual game modes"
author: sanathkukkillaya
date: '2022-12-18 1:35:23 +0530'
category: ['professional_projects']
tags: jekyll
thumbnail: /assets/img/posts/ucf-thumbnail.jpg
keywords: professional, project, professional projects, ultimate cafe franchise, ucf, hypercasual, casual games, match3, fruit chop, bubbleshooter, resource collection, cafe, builder, character customization, customization, characters, fsm, state machine, dialog system, a star pathfinding, isometric, tilemap, loading screen, level generation
usemathjax: false
permalink: /portfolio/ucf/
---
I worked as the project lead on this casual game involving cafe building and match3, fruit chop and bubbleshooter gameplay modes.

This game revolves around restoring and expanding your cafe by collecting resources. Resources can be collected by clearing multiple levels of match 3 games. There are also some bonus levels in the form of fruit chop games which can be used to collect fruits to enhance the signature drinks available in the cafe. Some bonus bubbleshooter games can be used to rescue pets trapped in the bubbles to further decorate your cafe.

#### My contributions:
- Developed the core cafe gameplay system, which included the use of isometric tilemaps. Implemented the system of unlocking cafe expansions and furniture assets using scriptable objects.
- Developed a character controller system for the customers and the waiters using a extensible finite state machine pattern.
- Developed a basic dialog system to allow for customers and waiters to interact with each other.
- Implemented A* pathfinding system from Aron Granberg to allow for the movement of the characters on a 2D isometric tilemap.
- Developed the bubbleshooter game mode and designed an editor tool to allow for easy level generations.
- Developed a loading screen system to properly increment the loading screen while performing initialization tasks on a scene.
- Integrated Facebook SDK for login and Google Play sdk for achievements.